<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="archoverview">
  <title>HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0: Service Architecture Overview</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc>Installation prerequisites and architectural overview of the HPE Helion
      Development Platform.</shortdesc> This Reference Architecture document outlines installation
    prerequisites and provides an architectural overview of the key components of the HPE Helion
    Development Platform. This document complements the HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm>
    Reference Architecture Document and assumes that the underlying IaaS complies with that
    reference architecture and that the reader is familiar with the HPE Helion OpenStack-specific
    concepts covered there. This document and associated service architecture reference documents
    describe only one supported architecture for HPE Helion Development Platform version 2.0, not
    all possible architectures and customizations. For any questions, please contact your  HPE
    Helion Development Platform sales or account representative. </abstract>
  <body>
    <section id="expandCollapse">
      <sectiondiv outputclass="expandall">Expand All Sections </sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="collapseall">Collapse All Sections</sectiondiv>
    </section>
    
    <section><title outputclass="headerH">Platform Overview</title>This section provides an
      introduction to the services that comprise the HPE Helion Development Platform. The HPE Helion
      Development Platform provides the foundation for developers to build great cloud-native
      applications on HPE Helion OpenStack. Based on Cloud Foundry™ and fully integrated with HPE
      Helion OpenStack®, the HPE Helion Development Platform is open and interoperable, ensuring
      that developers can focus on building the right app for any environment. <sectiondiv
        outputclass="insideSection"><p>HPE Helion Development Platform Application Services are
          trusted services:<ul id="ul_btw_x1b_x5">
            <li> The Database Service control plane runs in the Admin tenant.</li>
            <li> The databases created by the Database Service run in the user tenant. </li>
            <li> The Messaging Service control plane and message queue instances created for the
              user run in the Messaging Service Tenant (msgaas). </li>
            <li> The HPE Helion Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) PaaS runs in the user tenant.
            </li>
          </ul></p> The HPE Helion Development Platform (HDP) consists of the following components:
          <ul id="ul_nbw_z1b_x5">
          <li> Application Lifecycle Service (ALS, aka Stackato) - Cloud Foundry based Platform as a
            Service (PaaS) deploys, scales, and ensures availability of application instances.</li>
          <li> Code Engine - a Continuous Integration service that automates build, test, and deploy
            steps to streamline the software release and quality assurance processes. </li>
          <li> Application Services - external application services provide enterprise grade
            durability and manageability for the services used by applications in the Helion
            Stackato PaaS.</li>
          <li> Database as a Service - provides lifecycle management for relational and non
            relational databases, including MySQL, MongoDB, Redis, and Vertica Preview. </li>
          <li> Messaging as a Service - provides lifecycle management for RabbitMQ clusters</li>
        </ul></sectiondiv></section>
    
    <section><title outputclass="headerH">HPE Helion Development Platform Users</title><sectiondiv
        outputclass="insideSection">
        <ul>
          <li>Developers - the end user of the PaaS is a developer who writes applications for end
            users.</li>
          <li> Admins - manage all HPE Helion Development Platform services</li>
          <li> Operators - install HPE Helion Development Platform services and manage the HPE
            Helion OpenStack installation. These users are assumed to have root access for HPE
            Helion OpenStack including full control over the cloud IaaS and hypervisors.</li>
        </ul>
      </sectiondiv></section>
    
    <section>
      <title outputclass="headerH">IaaS Requirements  </title>
      <p>This section focuses on the HPE Helion Development Platform requirements on HPE Helion
        OpenStack 2.0. All of the HPE Helion Development Platform services run “in-cloud”, which
        means inside of virtual machine instances provided by HPE Helion OpenStack. Once installed
        and configured, users interact with the services either from an API, command line (CLI), or
        by using the HPE Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard. The way in which the HPE Helion
        Development Platform services are configured and deployed on top of a HPE Helion OpenStack
        environment is described in more detail in the following sections. </p>
      <p>
        <b>Availability Zones</b></p>
      <p>In order to achieve maximum availability for services and applications running in your
        environment, you will want to be sure to configure availability zones (AZs). Availability
        zones enable you to arrange OpenStack® compute hosts into logical groups that provide a form
        of physical isolation and redundancy from other availability zones. For example, servers on
        independent power sources and networking equipment. Availability zones should be defined
        such that if equipment fails in one zone that the failure will not affect compute resources
        in another zone. Defining availability zones and assigning compute resources to those zones
        is carried out within the HPE Helion OpenStack environment by the operators.</p>
      <p> When users provision resources, they can specify which availability zone is to be used for
        those resources. This allows services and developers to ensure that the multiple components
        of their application resources are spread across separate fault-tolerant compute pools to
        achieve high availability in the event of hardware failure.</p>
      <p>
        <b>Networking Requirements</b></p><p>High-level networking requirements for each HDP service are detailed in the <xref
          href="#archoverview/relinfo" format="dita">service reference architecture
        documents</xref>. </p>
      <p>The HPE Helion Development Platform runs in the HPE Helion OpenStack environment and it is
        important to ensure the networking is properly configured. Please refer to <xref
          href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#helion/example_configurations.html" scope="external"
          format="html">HPE OpenStack example configurations </xref> to see the different networking
        configurations that the HPE Helion Development Platform runs on. <note>
          <ul id="ul_fyy_bdb_x5">
            <li>At this time, HPE Helion Development Platform  version 2.0 has only been validated
              on KVM-based hypervisors. </li>
            <li>The ALS and Code Engine services need access to the public internet.</li>
          </ul>
        </note></p>
      <p><b>Global Security Rules</b></p>
      <p><b>Product Deployment Assumptions</b></p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title outputclass="headerH">OpenStack Service Requirements</title><sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
     <p> <b>Service Installation</b></p>
     <p> <b>Service Installation Resource Assumptions</b></p>
 <p>     <b>Requirements By Service</b></p>
    <p>  <b>Additional Quotas</b></p>
    </sectiondiv></section>
    
    <section>
      <title outputclass="headerH">HPE Helion Development Platform Support Matrix</title>
      <p>The following is the HPE Helion Development Platform support matrix outlining where it can
        be installed: </p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_c35_fbb_x5">
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry> HPE Helion Development Platform Version </entry>
                <entry>HPE Helion OpenStack Version </entry>
                <entry>CloudSystem Version </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry> HDP 2.0 </entry>
                <entry>HOS 2.0, HOS 2.1 </entry>
                <entry>N/A </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry> HDP 1.3 </entry>
                <entry>HOS 1.2 </entry>
                <entry>CS 9.0, CS 9.0.1 </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry> HDP 1.2 </entry>
                <entry>HOS 1.2 </entry>
                <entry>CS 9.0, CS 9.0.1 </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note>Only HPE Helion Development Platform distributions on CS 9.0 and above support both
          the ESX and KVM hypervisors. All other distributions support only KVM.</note>
      </p>
    </section>
<section id="relinfo"><title>Related Service Reference Architecture Documents</title></section>
    <p>Each service has a separate document to show what the service architecture looks like
      after installation and provide operational guidance. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
