<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="database_operations_guide">
   <title>Database Service Operations Guide</title>
   <body>
       <section>
         <p>When HA is enabled, the database service will distribute its multiple database instances across the compute hosts in those zones, ensuring that a single hardware failure in one availability zone (AZ) does not impact more than one database instance. </p>
         
         <p>Other users who request virtual machines (VMs), but do not specify a particular AZ, may have their VM instances scheduled from those AZs assigned for use by the database service.  This means that other VMs can consume compute resources from those 
             AZs used by the database service, and so the administrator will need to ensure that sufficient compute resources are available for new database service requests.</p>
         
         <p>If a compute host is not associated with an AZ, the Database Service will not be able to provision a database instance to it. As a result, the Database Service may run out of capacity even though there are compute 
             hosts with free capacity in the Helion OpenStack instance. </p>
           
         <p>When a user requests a database via the Database Service API, CLI, or horizon console, they provide the amount of OpenStack Block storage required for the database and VM instance flavor to be used.	</p>
           
         <p>Once a new database becomes active, users connect to it via the datastore command-line client, datastore tools, or libraries used by applications.  Users can also assign a floating IP address to the database, and update the security group 
             to allow for connection from outside the external network.</p>
         </section>
       <section id="Data_Durability">
           <title>Data Durability</title>
           <p>The Database service ensures database content is protected through its integration with the
               HPE Helion OpenStack Block Storage. HPE Helion Openstack offers two cinder block storage
               plugin choices that provide Highly Available RAID protected Storage volumes for use by the
               user databases:</p>
           <ul>
               <li>HPE 3PAR storage arrays</li>
               <li>StoreVirtual VSA software running on ProLiant servers that creates a virtual array using the ProLiant server internal disks.</li>
             </ul>
           <p>For more information on HPE Helion OpenStack Cinder block storage and on capacity estimation
               guidelines, see <xref
                   href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.-vsa-overview.html"
                   format="html" scope="external">Cinder Block Storage Using HPE StoreVirtual VSA</xref>.</p>
         </section>
     </body>
  </topic>