<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="opguideals">
  <title>HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0: ALS Operations Guide</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">Documentation to help operate the Application Lifecycle Service.</shortdesc>This section contains usage requirements - additional requirements needed to successfully operate an Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) cluster.</abstract>
  <body>
    <section id="expandCollapse">
      <sectiondiv outputclass="expandall">Expand All Sections</sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="collapseall">Collapse All Sections</sectiondiv>
    </section>
    
    <section><title outputclass="headerH">Availability zones</title><sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection"><p>ALS AZs do not automatically align to HPE Helion OpenStack AZs. It is important that they are configured the same in order for the applications to be distributed correctly.
      You can set the availablity zone for a node by using “kato node availabilityzone $ZONE --node $IP” command.
      Additional references:
      http://docs.stackato.com/admin/cluster/zones.html
      https://docs.hpcloud.com/devplatform/2.0/helion/admin/reference/kato-ref.html#topic39432__kato-command-ref-node-availabilityzone
    </p></sectiondiv></section>
    <section><title outputclass="headerH">Application Service Access</title><sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection"><p>ALS cluster users can connect to internal databases by leveraging the dbshell (recommended) and
          tunnels (only for sql server) via the helion cli. For more information read this document. </p>
        <p>They can also access external,managed databases and message brokers provided by the
          Database and Messaging Services by specifying database credentials in user provided
          services instances. </p>
        <p>Note that applications in ALS must have line of sight to the database endpoints that they
          are trying to reach. In the default reference architecture, all of the database instances
          were created on the same network that the ALS cluster nodes were. </p></sectiondiv></section>
    <section><title outputclass="headerH">Docker Support Requirements</title><sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection"><p>ALS 2.0 supports Docker Apps. Docker Apps are Docker containers that are web apps and expose a
          port. From an ALS cluster operator perspective two major considerations need to be
          referred: <ul id="ul_r2v_ssb_x5">
            <li>The Internal Docker Registry – ALS uses this registry for caching and improving the
              developer experience. This registry lives in the cloud controller nodes. ALS fetches
              images from the Docker Hub or the specified repository and keeps copies in a local
              registry server on the controller so that subsequent deployments using any of the
              downloaded layers can be done more quickly. A cron job runs periodically to keep the
              local registry server from growing too large. The size limit is defined in the
              following setting in kato config and it’s default value is 10240MB. (10GB) </li>
            <li>Controlling developer deployments – due to security considerations it is recommended
              that container deployments are done from a trusted source and from in ALS
              Organizations with sudo access. It is the operator’s discretion to allow container
              deployments and they are disabled by default. </li>
          </ul>For more information read this doc:
          http://docs.hpcloud.com/#devplatform/1.3/helion/admin/server/docker.html </p></sectiondiv></section>
    <section><title outputclass="headerH">Microsoft .NET Support Requirements</title><sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection"><p>Support for applications using Microsoft .NET technologies has been added to Helion Stackato in
          HDP V1.2. This allows .NET developers to deploy applications to an Helion Stackato cluster
          with the the same advantages of Platform-as-a-Service such as automatic build packs,
          application scaling and monitoring that Linux application developers have.</p>
        <p>For details of .NET and Visual Studio versions, application frameworks and software
          requirements, refer to following references:<ul id="ul_a5l_wsb_x5">
            <li dir="ltr">
              <p dir="ltr"><xref
                  href="https://docs.hpcloud.com/devplatform/1.3/windows/windows_overview.html#topic24073_2__apps"
                  format="html" scope="external"
                  >https://docs.hpcloud.com/devplatform/1.3/windows/windows_overview.html#topic24073_2__apps</xref></p>
            </li>
            <li dir="ltr"><xref
                href="https://docs.hpcloud.com/devplatform/1.3/windows/windows_overview.html#topic24073_2__softwarerequirements"
                format="html" scope="external"
                >https://docs.hpcloud.com/devplatform/1.3/windows/windows_overview.html#topic24073_2__softwarerequirements</xref></li>
          </ul></p>
    <p>For licensing reasons there are some additional steps an administrator needs to take in order
      to add .NET and Microsoft SQL Server to the Helion Stackato environment. The administrator
      will use their own licensed Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 ISO image and volume license keys
      to create the glance images by using the new glazier tool.</p>
    <p>Glazier has a number of uncommon requirements that should be considered. The glazier tool
      must be run either from a Linux (Ubuntu recommended) or MAC OSX system that has hardware-based
      virtualization support enabled and Oracle VirtualBox 4.3.26 or later installed. That system
      also requires a network connection to the public internet and to the Helion OpenStack where
      the Helion Stackato cluster will be deployed. </p>
    <p>The full list of requirements is:<ul id="ul_g1v_zsb_x5">
        <li> System running either Linux (Ubuntu recommended) or MAC OS X. <ul id="ul_bgd_2tb_x5">
            <li>Virtualization support enabled o 16GB RAM recommended</li>
            <li>100GB available disk space</li>
            <li>Connectivity to the public internet</li>
            <li>Connectivity to the Helion OpenStack environment where the Windows images will be
              deployed ·</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Glazier tool downloaded</li>
        <li>Oracle VirtualBox 4.3.26 or later installed</li>
        <li>Additional downloads o Windows <ul id="ul_mtf_gtb_x5">
            <li>VirtIO Image 0.1.96:
              https://fedorapeople.org/groups/virt/virtio-win/direct-downloads/archive-virtio/virtio-win-0.1.96/virtio-win-0.1.96.iso </li>
            <li>Windows Server 2012 R2 ISO (either Volume licensed obtained via MSDN for development
              &amp; test or volume-licensed production images obtained through the Microsoft OEM
              channel)</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Windows Product Key for Windows Server 2012 R2, Standard Edition.</li>
        <li>OpenStack RC file for an admin account from your Helion OpenStack environment</li>
        <li>Helion OpenStack CA Certificate (ephemeralca-cacert.crt) <p>For full information on
            creating .NET and MSSQL database support, see <xref
              href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#devplatform/2.0/windows/windows_building_and_deploying.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
              >http://docs.hpcloud.com/#devplatform/2.0/windows/windows_building_and_deploying.html</xref></p></li>
    </ul></p></sectiondiv></section>
  </body>
</topic>
