<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_pvd_bbd_w5">
    <title>Vertica Integration for Developers (test Task layout)</title>
    <shortdesc>How to create and integrate user-defined Vertica Technical Preview services.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody><prereq> <ul>
        <li>You already have an ALS cluster created.</li>
        <li>You can access it to deploy applications. </li>
        <li>You have allowed access to the Vertica instance or clustered IP addresses and Vertica
            port 5433 using <xref href="../admin/server/configuration.dita#topic31232/container_allowed">the process available here</xref>.</li>
    </ul></prereq>
        <context>
            <p>Create a user-provided service in the ALS cluster.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Log in to the target ALS cluster using <codeph>helion target</codeph> and
                        <codeph>helion login</codeph>.</cmd><stepxmp><p>Target the ALS
                    cluster.</p><codeblock>$ helion target &lt;ALS cluster end point&gt;</codeblock>Log
                    in.<codeblock>$ helion login</codeblock></stepxmp>
<stepresult>
                    <codeblock>$ helion target api.15.124.133.173.xip.io
Successfully targeted to [https://api.15.124.133.173.xip.io]
Target: https://api.15.124.133.173.xip.io
Organization: &lt;none&gt;
Space: &lt;none&gt;</codeblock>
                    <codeblock>$ helion login
Attempting login to [https://api.15.124.133.173.xip.io]
Username: myuser@mycompany.com
Password:
Successfully logged into [https://api.15.124.133.173.xip.io]
demo@hpe.com Choosing the one available organization: "default"
Choosing the one available space: "default"
Target:       https://api.15.124.133.173.xip.io
Organization: default
Space:        default</codeblock>
                </stepresult>
            </step><step>
                <cmd>Retrieve a list of all services in the ALS cluster using <codeph>helion services</codeph>. </cmd><stepxmp><codeblock>$ helion services</codeblock></stepxmp><stepresult><p>On a new ALS cluster with no services created, you should see output similar to the
                        following:</p><codeblock>SSL warning for "api.15.124.133.173.xip.io": self signed certificate

============== Service Plans ================
+--------+------+-------------+---------+------+--------+----------+---------+--------+------+
| Vendor | Plan | Description | Details | Free | Public | Provider | Version | Broker | Orgs |
+--------+------+-------------+---------+------+--------+----------+---------+--------+------+
+--------+------+-------------+---------+------+--------+----------+---------+--------+------+
=========== Provisioned Services ============</codeblock></stepresult>
            </step><step><cmd>Create a new service for binding Vertica from applications in the ALS cluster.</cmd><stepxmp>
               <codeblock> $ helion create-service user-provided &lt;name of your Vertica service&gt;</codeblock></stepxmp>
            
            <substeps>
                <substep>
                    <cmd>You will be prompted for the field names to be used for Vertica connection credentials. For a
                            single instance Vertica, provide field names such as:
                            hostname,port,username,password,db.For a Vertica Preview cluster, for
                            example with 3 nodes, provide field names such as:
                            hostname,port,username,password,db (Hostname refers to the master node
                            of the Vertica cluster.) </cmd>
                </substep>
            </substeps>
                
            
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
