<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="upservicesoverview">
  <title>HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0: Managed Service Connectivity to ALS Clusters and
    Applications</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">Procedure to connect managed services to an ALS
      cluster or applications.</shortdesc>This document describes the steps required to connect
    managed HDP application services instances/clusters to an HDP ALS cluster and to connect to
    applications in that ALS cluster. </abstract>
  <body>

<section>

      <p>The following application services come built-in with HPE Helion Development Platform: <ul
          id="ul_oxm_c3l_p5">
          <li>
            <lines>Database Service (Trove): MySQL, Redis, MongoDB, Vertica Preview (single instances and clusters)</lines>
          </li>
          <li>
            <lines>Message Broker: RabbitMQ clusters </lines>
          </li>
        </ul>Typically, application services can be bound to an ALS cluster via the standard Cloud
        Foundry <xref
          href="http://www.activestate.com/blog/2014/04/user-provided-service-instances-use-them"
          format="html" scope="external">User Provided Service</xref> mechanism. <note>MySQL
          instances and clusters are bound to ALS clusters via the <xref
            href="../../../2.0/database/devplatform.database-ALS.dita">Service Gateway</xref>
          mechanism. </note></p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_t5j_l3l_p5">
          <li>You have access to Helion OpenStack deployer node or a jump box that is on the same
            network as Trove control plane such as the Trove management network. </li>
          <li>You can run Trove client commands such as <codeph>trove list</codeph>. You can install
            the Trove client by running <codeph>sudo apt-get install python-troveclient</codeph> on
            the machine you will run  Trove commands. More information on how to obtain and use the
            Trove CLI can be found <xref
              href="../../../2.0/database/devplatform.database-instance.dita#DatabaseService/more"
              >here</xref>. </li>
          <li>You have access to an HDP ALS cluster, and can run the helion client to manage the
            cluster and push applications. For more information on ALS clusters and their usage, see
            the <xref href="../user/helion_user_index.dita#topic1693">ALS User's Guide</xref> or the
            full <xref href="../user/client/client_index.dita#topic3165">helion client
              reference</xref>.</li>
          <li><b>Connectivity from ALS cluster to user-provided services: It is required that ALS
              cluster(s) and user-provided service instance(s) and cluster(s) be on the same
              network.</b> On the ALS cluster that you will deploy applications, to be able to
            access user-provided service instances, you need to configure to allow network traffic
            to IP’s and ports for these service instances/clusters. For each service instance or
            cluster you create, you also need to <xref
              href="../admin/server/configuration.dita#topic31232/container_allowed">configure ALS cluster to allow access to it</xref>.
            Here it is assumed that you have already configured your ALS cluster for access to each
            service instance or cluster.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Related Information</title><p>Reference Architecture</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="../../architecture/devplatform.database-architecture.dita">Database Service
            Reference Architecture</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../../architecture/devplatform.als-architecture.dita">ALS Reference
            Architecture</xref></li></ul>
      <p>Administrator Steps</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="up_services_update.dita">Updating User-provided Service Credentials</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="up_services_admin_message.dita">Messaging Integration for Administrators</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="up_services_admin_mongo.dita">MongoDB Integration for Administrators</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="up_services_admin_mysql.dita">MySQL Integration for Administrators</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="up_services_admin_redis.dita">Redis Integration for Administrators</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="up_services_admin_vertica.dita">Vertica Integration for Administrators</xref></li></ul>
      
      <p>Developer Steps</p><ul>
    <li><xref href="up_services_dev_message.dita">Messaging Integration for Developers</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="up_services_dev_mongo.dita">MongoDB Integration for Developers</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="up_services_dev_mysql.dita">MySQL Integration for Developers</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="up_services_dev_redis.dita">Redis Integration for Developers</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="up_services_dev_vertica.dita">Vertica Integration for Developers</xref></li>
    
  </ul></section></body>
</topic>
